---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Maybe Making Websites Isn't for Me
date: 2016-10-20
labels:
  - Software Engineering
---

Oh boy, where to start with Meteor?  Let me first start by reluctantly admitting some advantages (very few) of Meteor.  I've been told by Professor Johnson that database management is apparently easier in Meteor, but that's probably part of his evil Meteor propoganda.  It's been so easy to implement in Meteor, obviously the worst development framework I've used, that I'm about 100% certain it must be easier to write in SQL or anything else really, even though I've never used it.  The other "great" thing about Meteor is that it works.  And that's pretty much it.

Niceties aside, I can finally complaining about Meteor.  Getting Meteor to work on Windows is more difficult than negotiating a peace treaty between Bette Davis and Joan Crawford.  It's even more frustrating to watch Mac over there, just getting along so well, while my poor Windows desktop acts friendly while getting repeately rejected by Meteor.  Regardless, I made the marriage work.

Now comes my second "favorite" thing about Meteor - how slow it is!  My laptop is ready to program.  IntelliJ is ready to go, Github is ready for changes, and good-old Meteor takes her sweet old time.  I'm already bored.  I'm surfing the web, watching Youtube and "only" an hour later I'm finally ready to start.

Since Meteor is so damn hard, many of the sample forms have been made for us already.  We have a meteor template with semantic.  We're also finally allowed to watch Professor Johnson's demonstration before starting the assignment!  Best of all, I don't need to write much original code and I can copy code from the template.  I enjoy this, because I still don't like Meteor.  The less Meteor I need to write, the better.

Will I ever like Meteor?  Probably not.  Will I ever become a web developer?  Probably even less so.  But despite all of my beef with Meteor, I'm still chugging along.  Hopefully I'll stick with Meteor long enough I might actually learn to tolerate it.  
